The Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA) would be expanded to cover 8,878 sq km from its current 1,189 sq km. All of Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts as well as Arakkonam taluk in Vellore district would be part of the new CMA, Housing and Urban Development Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan told the Assembly on Monday.  The objective is to counter the effect of ever-increasing population in Chennai; regulate development in fast-growing suburban areas; and create infrastructure on a par with economic activities, he said, while replying to a debate on Demands for Grants. The Minister said the government would draw up a Strategic Regional Plan to ensure urbanisation and planned urban development in the expanded areas and master plans for urban and economic growth centres. The entire process is expected to be completed in another year. Development schemes will pay adequate attention to transport, basic infrastructure, environment protection and protection of fertile agricultural lands, Mr. Radhakrishnan said, adding that the administrative structure in the CMA would be strengthened through proper changes.  Mr. Radhakrishnan said the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority would prepare a plan for proper utilisation of vacant areas under the flyovers in Chennai and suburban areas. The areas will be used for additional parking facilities, green areas and advertisements, he said.  Stressing the need for improving the environment and the safety of people in old areas like Triplicane and George Town that have continuous building areas, the minister said a re-development plan would be evolved for the purpose. These areas will get public space, wider roads, infrastructure development and safe buildings. The re-development will be done based on guidelines evolved by experts, he said.  In an attempt to boost infrastructure and maintain uniformity in development, the state government has dusted off a five year old plan to expand metropolitan limits  a seven fold increase of the original size  covering 8,878 sqkm of Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts and Arakkonam division of Vellore district. Housing and urban development minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan unveiled the mega plan in the assembly on Monday. At present, the Chennai metropolitan area is 1,189 sq km.  
In comparison, Mumbai has 4,354 sqkm, Hyderabad 7,100 sq km and Bengaluru 8,005sqkm.The move is to ensure a balanced development of the region. Owing to unscientific land use, development is haphazard in the urban landscape. The city's peripheral areas have seen land parcels being sold by farming community to developers at throwaway prices for promoting housing colonies in the last two decades. 
